                               Johanna Brahe in
                     The Planet of the Vicious Creatures

		     Copyright (c) 2016, 2017 Jorge Giner

--------------------------------------
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS (FAQ v1.03)
--------------------------------------

        1. Which is the language LSF (PEANO) in the game?
        2. Why is the astronaut in the game called Johanna Brahe?
        3. What is Gliese 581?
        4. How can the game occupy only 1 megabyte?
        5. Where did the author take inspiration?
        6. Which is the game palette?

1. Which is the language LSF (PEANO) in the game?
-------------------------------------------------

Latino sine flexione. It is an international auxiliary language, proposed by
Giuseppe Peano first in 1903. As everyone in the universities used Latin, and
everyone had a Latin dictionary, he proposed to use a simplified version of it
for International communication. This was before the First and Second World
Wars. (After these wars, English has become the dominant language for science
and international communication).

The simplification consists mainly in using the ablative of all the words, and
use always the imperative for the verbs.

Giuseppe Peano founded the "Academia pro Interlingua", and the language was
called 'Interlingua' for some time. Don't confuse it with the language
'Interlingua' that exists today with the assigned ISO code 'ia'. This new
'Interlingua' uses the name with permission from the "Academia pro
Interlingua".

The original Interlingua used the Latin vocabulary, but always trying to
select the words that ended in the English language (with priority) and in
French, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, German and Russian languages.

You can read more here:

https://sites.google.com/site/latinosineflexio/

2. Why is the astronaut in the game called Johanna Brahe?
---------------------------------------------------------

To praise Johannes Kepler and Tycho Brahe.

3. What is Gliese 581 g?
------------------------

It is an actual planet orbiting the red dwarf Gliese 581. It would be near the
habitable zone of the star. Read more on Wikipedia.

4. How can the game occupy only 1 megabyte?
-------------------------------------------

First, the game has a resolution of 256x224 pixels, which was common in arcade
games. This requires little space for graphics.

Second, because it is done by hand, so you, the final player, have the least
resources consumed in your computer. The author did not use any game making
tool, so he knows exactly what goes into the program.

The author philosophy is minimalism. He only used the tools he needed for the
job: the GNU C compiler and the SDL library. This is about 60 MB in his
computer. He didn't use any game making tool or compiler that installs in his
computer gigabytes. The author used a 13 years old computer.

Please read:

"A plea for lean software", by Niklaus Wirth
https://www.inf.ethz.ch/personal/wirth/Articles/LeanSoftware.pdf

5. Where did the author take inspiration?
-----------------------------------------

Gameplay is based on "Abu Simbel, Profanation", by Dinamic, 1985. The killing
drops and hard gameplay comes from there.

Portals, of course from the film "Stargate", 1994. You can activate the hidden
Stargate symbols on portals in the game by writting 'stargate' at the main
menu.

The title of the game tries to mimic pulp science fiction.

6. Which is the game palette?
-----------------------------

The game uses only the 27 colors that the Amstrad CPC computer was capable of.

